you
hi my name is Peter Vogel and in this
lesson we're going to learn a very
common chord progression DC at 9 and G
and then a strum pattern to go with it
tune your guitar and let's get started
so we're going to start with the D chord
with D I'm strumming from the fourth
string down
I've got my first finger on the second
fret third string my second finger on
the second fret first string my third
finger on the second string third fret
notice I'm towards the front of the fret
I'm not back here that's going to make
it really hard to be clean but when I
slide forward I get a much cleaner sound
I'm on the tips of my fingers thumb is
not high
so that's D then we're going to switch
to C at 9:00 so we've got to see at 9:00
Ford
my first finger is on the 2nd fret 4th
string my 2nd finger is on the 3rd fret
5th string and my 3rd finger is on the
3rd fret 2nd string
I'm strumming this chord from the 5th
string down
noticed when I switched from D to C at
nine my third finger stayed still
that's a pivot finger going to be really
important to use that it helps connect
the chords together and once again
notice my thumb did not come up high
play this chord
the next chord is G major
I've got my second finger on the third
fret sixth string my first finger on the
second fret fifth string my third finger
on the second string third fret and my
first finger on the first string third
fret
I'm towards the front of the frets I'm
not back here that's going to make it
hard towards the front strumming all the
strings
and once again my thumb is now at pod
because that's going to pull out of my
hand behind the neck notice how high my
wrist went this is going to leave more
finger in front of the neck and make it
easier to play notice what when I went
from C at 9 to G my third finger once
again stays still
and then as chord progressions do it's
going to start all over so I'm going to
go back to D and my third finger is once
again going to stay still so during this
whole chord progression my third finger
is staying right where it is
one other tip about playing chords is
you want to press down as lightly as you
can and still get a clean note so don't
over press notice what happens when I do
that you can actually hear the pitch
change and it's making me work really
hard so what we're looking for is the
lightest touch possible and still get a
clean note now let's take a look at the
strum pattern
so the strum pattern we want to use
today is down down up down down and
we're just demonstrating it over the D
chord for now so if you make your D
chord you're going to start with the
down stroke come back up down up down
come back up down that might sound like
I'm overthinking it so let's talk about
it this way I want you to stay in
constant motion
and I want the right hand to move
in time it's like it's a metronome so
it's down-up down-up down-up really even
you
remember we're only strumming from the
fourth string down down down up down
down
down down up down down
as I strum my wrist is turning just a
little bit it's not like this it's not
rigid it's turning a little bit the pic
is turning a little bit I'm brushing the
strings I'm not colliding with the
strength
now let's put it all together
so adding to our difficulty we're now
doing our chord changes
keeping that pivot finger and attempting
to do the strum pattern at the same time
the thing that's difficult here is you
have to wait to the last moment to do
your chord change so if you're
attempting to do this and you haven't
got your chord changes really good where
it's really smooth and easy to do you're
not going to be able to continue to play
in time so to play in time I have to
wait for this down stroke is done before
I can do that chord change I can't do it
before I can't go
I need to wait
wait
so let's go through this a couple times
10 plus 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & down down up
down down
down down up down down
doing it again
you
well that's it for this lesson
my name is Peter Vogel I hope you
learned something new and I will see you
again soon